All right.
So now in our main NAV component, we are successfully reading from the View Store using the store property
that is available.
Now I want to tackle the other half of the equation, which is writing to or updating the store.
Well, as a reminder, how do we update a store state?
We have to do it using a mutation.
And how can we issue a mutation?
We do so via the commit method on the store.
Well, we already have a store object in every component referenced by the dollar sign store property.
So in this log in user method, which runs automatically whenever the user clicks the login button,
I'm going to take my store reference.
This is my store object.
We know that we have a commit method and what message do I want to commit?
Which mutation do I want to run?
This one right here called log in user.
And that's it.
We don't have to change anything else in this component.
So I know it may be redundant, but I really want to run through the logic of everything that's going
to go on before we look at this in the browser.
So the browser is going to start up, it's going to load the View X App Store, it's going to load the
View App, and we're going to start with a state with a single property of is login set to false?
The component is immediately going to read that state and see is logged in to set the false.
So it's going to use that for the V of properties or the attributes.
Sorry, the directives.
It's going to use that for the V if directives right here are going to be set to false.
So we're not going to see the profile image and we're not going to see the sub now.
Then when the user clicks the action button, we're going to run the log in user method.
The log in user method will issue a mutation to the store.
This method will run which will change the value of the is logged in property on my view x store.
Now remember, the entire idea is reactivity.
Whenever the View Store state changes, it informs all components that are reading from the store.
Right now we only have the main nav component reading, but the same logic applies.
The UX will say hey may nav my is logged and property has updated.
So what is me now going to do?
It's going to rerun the is logged in computed property because the store has reactively changed.
This will now evaluate to true which is the new value of the is logged in store property.
And because this is now true, Vue will then re render the template and now VF is going to have a value
of true right here and true right here.
The V of directive receives a boolean of true, so it's now going to render profile, image and subnet.
It's the exact same design we previously had.
The only difference is we've removed this logic from being stored in local components, state i.e. data
and moved it entirely to being dependent on the view store.
So let's take a look at this in the browser right here.
We're going to start out.
We are not signed in.
When I click this, we're going to issue a mutation, the view store is going to update and then our
components going to update.
It's going to be instantaneous, but that is exactly what's happening there in that moment.
Let me refresh the page to show you again once again when I refresh our view store has a single property
is logged in is set to false.
When I press this button, we issue a mutation to the store.
The store knows how to react to the log in user mutation and knows to flip the is logged in property
at true that updates the store which updates the component which we renders that template and gives
us the sub nav and the profile image.
All right.
So hopefully this has been a fun lesson.
And in the very next next lesson, we're going to see how we can observe this view store change in our
DevTools.